Brady Lund: Hello, everyone, and welcome back to Module 4 Module 4 is information organization, which
Brady Lund: happens to be one of the classes that I regularly teach at the graduate level.
Brady Lund: I will say it's not necessarily the most
Brady Lund: a thrilling, exciting topic to talk about, but in my personal opinion at least. But it is an important
Brady Lund: concept within information science, obviously so, a very important one to talk about here in our course as well.
Brady Lund: So what is information organization?
Brady Lund: Well, if you think back to what we've been talking about over the past couple of weeks, we have these large stores of resources. We may have a library with
Brady Lund: a million books, for instance.
Brady Lund: Well, we can't just take in new resources. We can't just take any new book and put it wherever
Brady Lund: there's a spot available on a shelf, because if somebody comes along later on and wants to be able to find that book.
Brady Lund: we're not going to know where we placed it.
Brady Lund: So. Information organization is a collection of principles or systems to
Brady Lund: organize these resources in a logical way, so that we can then retrieve them.
Brady Lund: Retrieval or retrieving being a term that we'll discuss more next week.
Brady Lund: actually going and finding the resources we need based off an information need.
Brady Lund: So we're developing systems in order to arrange and organize our objects
Brady Lund: so that we can go and find them later on.
Brady Lund: I give the example of a library, but you can also think about retrieval of
Brady Lund: other documents, or even data sets arranged in a collection arranged in the database.
Brady Lund: Obviously, we don't just want to. If we have a collection of data files. Just store them with random numbers as as their titles. You know, this is file one. This is File 2,
Brady Lund: because we're not going to know what file number has the actual data set that we're looking for? We need to have more descriptors.
Brady Lund: more information, more what we call metadata or data describing our resources in order to be able to find the data sets that we need.
Brady Lund: So this requires a pretty detailed organizational structure. We need to be able to identify one specific resource, one specific document.
Brady Lund: one specific data set out of a collection of potentially millions of resources. So each resource
Brady Lund: must have a unique identifier that sets it apart from all other resources. So we can find that resource that we need and must have some kind of ability to show relationships among these different resources so that you can see resources that are related to one another.
Brady Lund: All the resources in a specific subject area, for instance. So when we're talking about information organization, we're arranging large collections of information. We must have logical ways to do this. So we can find the specific resource that we need.
Brady Lund: So let's talk a bit about metadata, metadata, or metadata.
Brady Lund: I'm not picky about how you pronounce it. The most important thing to know is that this is literally data about data.
Brady Lund: So in other words.
Brady Lund: we discuss data when talking about the data information, knowledge, wisdom, pyramid, right? The Di Kw, pyramid data is
Brady Lund: any kind of symbols stimulus, anything that can help us
Brady Lund: understand the world as we make sense of it as we add meaning to it to turn into information.
Brady Lund: Metadata describes data. It also describes information in the case of actual organized resources as well.
Brady Lund: But what it's telling us is it's providing us information about the attributes
Brady Lund: of our documents, of our data, of our information in order to be able to differentiate one resource from another, and in order to describe or provide some information about that resource that can help us distinguish one from another.
Brady Lund: So you can see in this immature example, if we had a cat as our data. In this case our metadata could be things like
Brady Lund: file name for the photo of that cat.
Brady Lund: who took a photo of the cat where they took it when they took it. For a cat itself. If a cat was the actual data that we're organizing, if we have like
Brady Lund: a collection of cats, or we had like animals at a zoo, or something of that sort.
Brady Lund: what type of animal is it? What breed. What is its age? What name have we given the animal? Where is it located? Within this arrangement?
Brady Lund: Metadata describes these attributes to distinguish one from another? It's not really focused on the content of what is it? So we're not going to be providing like a hundred page paper on what is a cap
Brady Lund: that's not metadata, but metadata is describing at a broad level. What is this thing?
Brady Lund: It's a cat. What kind of breed of cat is it so that we can distinguish, said Cat, from a dog.
Brady Lund: from a different breed of cat.
Brady Lund: from a person, from a book, from a rock. We're distinguishing these things from one another.
Brady Lund: So there are several types of metadata
Brady Lund: to think about. Descriptive metadata is describing the content of a document or for resource.
Brady Lund: So if we think in the case of books, things like title, author, keywords that's describing actual content. Who contributed to this book?
Brady Lund: Who's responsible for this book? What is this book? What is it about
Brady Lund: those kinds of things in a data set? What is this data about? What is it describing? What is this data from?
Brady Lund: Essentially.
Brady Lund: we have structural metadata. This is talking about the form of the actual document. So file formats edition of the book. So we may have a data store where we're including files in a variety of different formats. Maybe we have some Csv files. We have some Json files. We have
Brady Lund: a variety of different formats. Well.
Brady Lund: our metadata may specify what formats of data we have available.
Brady Lund: Because if you think about it from the person coming and looking for data sets, maybe I want to use data that's only organized in a certain format. If that's the case, then that's an important information aspect that I want to know before I make a decision whether or not to use that resource
Brady Lund: and finally, administrative metadata. That's like the technical details of the resource. Who created this
Brady Lund: metadata. When did they create it. That's important, because we may have a case where I've created a metadata record. I've described this cat in our little database here so that you can distinguish it from all the other cats, but maybe I made a mistake, or maybe it's outdated. Maybe the cat died, or something.
Brady Lund: Well, I need to then go and update the metadata to indicate the cat is dead. You're not actually going to be able to find it right? So there's a distinction there as well.
Brady Lund: and that needs to be made in our metadata so that we can have accurate information about our resources
Brady Lund: cataloging when we talk about
Brady Lund: the process of creating and entering metadata, creating these records within a library type context. Then we're talking about the job of a cataloger
Brady Lund: catalog you
Brady Lund: is the process of creating these records in order to support the retrieval of documents. So the process of
Brady Lund: identifying what metadata to enter and then how to enter it.
Brady Lund: When we are doing this, we typically follow a set of standardized formats. So cataloging, they're going to follow
Brady Lund: a set guidelines in terms of how to identify. For instance, what subject are we going to enter? What format are we going to use to enter in the author, the subject, so on and so forth. So we're not just
Brady Lund: looking at an object and saying, Well, this is how I would describe it. So this is how I'm going to enter the metadata record.
Brady Lund: We're going to follow a set of standards. We're going to follow a set list of possible subjects to enter, and we're going to use that to make suggestions or selections of what we would enter for the subject.
Brady Lund: So professional catalogers they're primarily working in between the actual documents themselves, whatever those are that the library collects
Brady Lund: and the systems where they're entering in the metadata. So they have to think about, how are the systems conceptualizing this metadata or using this metadata? How are users going to come and access
Brady Lund: resources by using this metadata? And then what is the actual resource about?
Brady Lund: And finally, we have classification schemes when we're talking about
Brady Lund: physical resources. They have call numbers classification numbers. And if you go to our libraries and you look around the stacks, our resources, you'll see. These have call numbers and call numbers.
Brady Lund: distinguish one resource from another. Within our library collections
Brady Lund: there are a variety of classification schemes that exist in libraries today. I'm not going to obviously go all over them here, and you aren't expected to, either. These are more specific to different types of libraries. But the important thing to note
Brady Lund: when we talk about classification schemes in this class? Is there ways to differentiate or provide a unique identifier to each resource within a collection distinguishing one book from another. Each book is going to have a distinct call number to distinguish it from all other books. Even if we were talking about something like a collection of data sets a collection of
Brady Lund: photographs in artworks in a museum, for instance, each item that we have in our collection is going to have a unique call number, which the specific purpose of this call number is not to tell us anything about what's in the book necessarily, but to distinguish one book from another, distinguish one resource from another. It is simply used as a reference in order to be able to determine and distinguish one resource from another.
Brady Lund: So this is an overview of information organization.
Brady Lund: We do have a Discussion board guided readings on these topics, and then a. Qqr. For this week, as always, please feel free to reach out to me. If you have any questions I'm available to support you. That is my job. So do not hesitate to reach out.
Brady Lund: and I will be happy to chat with you further.
Brady Lund: Have a great rest of your day, and I'll talk to you again soon.